I am Borys Paton. Born in 1918 in Kyiv,
Ukraine. I am a Soviet and Ukrainian
scientist and a long-time chairman of the
National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.
I am famous for my work in electric welding.
I am the son of a scientist and founder of
the Paton Institute of Electric Welding
in Kyiv, Professor Evgeny Paton. The
first welded bridge in Kyiv, Paton Bridge, was
constructed under the supervision of my father.
I was born in the professors’ residence building
of Kyiv Polytechnic Institute, where my father
was teaching. In 1941, I completed the Kyiv
Polytechnic Institute and became an engineer.
During the Second World War, I worked and
designed electric circuits that helped to
increase Soviet tank production. I had a doctoral
degree in technical sciences after I defended my
doctoral dissertation in 1952. In 1953 I became
head of the Paton Institute of Electric Welding.
I never fully denounced Ukraine's
past as part of the Soviet Union.
I declared I was against decommunization policies.
I joined the National Academy of Sciences
of Ukraine and the USSR Academy of Science.
I was offered to head the USSR Academy
of Sciences in Moscow, but I refused.
I was convinced that I should work
in Kyiv, at my parents' Institute of
Electric Welding and the Ukrainian Academy
of Sciences. I was the author of more than
1,000 publications, including 20 monographs,
and responsible for more than 400 inventions.
I died on 2020 aged 101. My life was filled
with challenges. All our lives will be like
that. I decided to look for an opportunity and use
reality to make my dreams happen. I wish we all
make a better future, not only for ourselves but
for those who are coming to the world after us.